Welcome, brothers and sisters.
In our program, we have a thrilling update about the Ramapo project
and reports about our brothers and sisters in Norway, Russia, and Ukraine.
We'll also hear about the tremendous increase in Bible studies, Earthwide.
And finally, we have a very exciting announcement.
Stay tuned.
Starting this month, January 2023,
we'll resume in-person circuit assemblies and theocratic schools.
We're thrilled to have these opportunities to gather together again.
And we're also looking forward to our in-person conventions later this year.
I'm sure like me, you're looking forward to singing that opening song at the convention
with thousands of our brothers and sisters.
How's the new headquarters project at Ramapo, New York, progressing?
We're thrilled to inform you that on December 28, 2022,
the town board of Ramapo approved the zoning for the facility
and gave approval for tree removal.
This key approval will allow the overall project to move forward.
We hope to begin clearing the site as early as January 2023, this month.
As the project at Ramapo gains momentum,
it reminds us of how we felt about the Warwick project
and the thousands of volunteers who supported it.
Soon after we moved in from Brooklyn,
brother led read an open letter from the governing body at Morning Worship.
With the Ramapo project now moving forward,
let's hear that beautiful letter from 2016.
When we think about this first morning worship from our beautiful new headquarters,
the governing body thought it would be appropriate to provide an open letter
to thank all who have shared and the hard work that went into this project
how we appreciate it.
But permit me, please, to read this open letter from the governing body.
Dear brothers, on behalf of the Warwick Bethel family,
the governing body would like to express deep appreciation
for our lovely new home here at Warwick Bethel.
How we love our new residences and offices,
the fresh air, quiet environment and beautiful scenery
are already having a beneficial effect on how we feel.
We are a covenant that now would Jehovah's blessing and help
we will be able to work even harder
and accomplish even more in behalf of kingdom and trists.
Even though we do not deserve such a wonderful place to live and work,
we truly appreciate this generous expression
of Jehovah's undeserved kindness, 1 Peter 4, 10.
We are most grateful to Jehovah for the more than 27,000 different brothers and sisters
who volunteered to work on the construction of this project.
Many of you dear friends took vacation time, paid your own transportation costs,
lived in small rooms and got up very early in the morning
to ride buses or shuttles to the work site.
Then you worked tirelessly in all kinds of weather,
putting your heart into supporting this theocratic building project.
Many of you accepted multiple invitations to work here.
Unquestionably, Jehovah loves you very much for what you have done.
Please be assured that the governing body loves you very much too.
To borrow Paul's words to the Thessalonians,
you have become so beloved to us, 1 Thessalonians to 8.
In addition to those who shared in the actual construction work,
countless other dear brothers and sisters
supported this project from afar.
Self-sacrificing wives back their husbands' participation.
Diligent remote workers lent a hand.
Generous publishers assisted financially
and other loyal ones encouraged and provided practical help to those
who were able to work at the Warwick site.
Reflecting on those who helped from far away
reminds us of 1 Samuel 30, 24.
God's Word tells us that the ones who stayed behind with a baggage
receive the same share as the ones who went into battle.
Even though we do not personally know the vast majority of you brothers and sisters
who have supported this project,
for a certainty, Jehovah knows each and every one of you.
As Hebrews 610 assures,
God is not unrighteous or to forget your work
and the love you showed for His name by ministering to the Holy Ones.
Jehovah expects us to give Him our best.
That is why He found Cain's sacrifice displeasing.
He knew that Cain could have done better.
Genesis 4.5
But like Abel,
you dear friends of given Jehovah your best,
we are confident that you will continue to show your whole hearted love
for Jehovah in harmony with your circumstances.
Genesis 4.4, Matthew 22, 37.
Additionally, the governing body would like to thank from the bottom of our heart
the five brothers who served on the Warwick Construction Project Committee
for their inexhaustible labors of love.
We also want to thank profusely the many Bethelites
who work shoulder to shoulder with us in connection with this massive theocratic endeavor.
Zephaniah 39.
Included are the brothers on the United States Branch Committee
and the hardworking brothers and sisters in the furniture moving department,
the maintenance department, the computer department,
the broadcasting department, the transportation department,
and the Bethel office who are still carrying out the gigantic task of moving the Bethel family
from Brooklyn to Warwick.
We would certainly be remiss if we failed to thank also the thousands upon thousands
of devoted brothers and sisters who labored on the project at Warkill.
That too was a massive undertaking.
May Jehovah bless the willing spirit that you dear ones have shown.
In the Bible, sometimes the thought is repeated three times for emphasis.
In this vein we say, thank you, thank you, thank you to all who have helped us
and are continuing to help us bring this wonderful theocratic project at headquarters to completion.
May Jehovah reward you for what you have done.
And may there be a perfect wage for you from Jehovah, the God of Israel,
under whose wings you have come to seek refuge?
Ruth 12.
We express our warm love and affection for all of you,
your brothers governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses.
As was the case for the Warwick project, thousands of volunteers
from the United States will be needed for Ramapo.
Thank you brothers and sisters for offering yourselves willingly,
for your heartfelt prayers and for your generous donations in behalf of the Ramapo project.
Soon, a special video report on the Ramapo approval will be released on JW.org.
You may recall that in our last update, we informed you about what's happening in Norway.
We were shocked when we received a letter from government authorities in Oslo, Norway
threatening to remove our registration as a religious community.
We're happy to update you on this case on December 22, 2022.
The authorities announced their decision to deregister Jehovah's Witnesses as a religious community in Norway.
Then, on December 28, we filed an injunction application with the Oslo District Court
asking them to suspend the deregistration until the matter had been resolved by the court.
On December 30, the court granted a temporary injunction.
We are very grateful to the Oslo District Court for granting this injunction.
Please continue to pray for a successful outcome.
Recently, we've had some interesting developments regarding Russia.
On December 9, 2022, the Council of Europe strongly urged Russia to reverse the ban imposed on the activities of all Jehovah's Witnesses
and to discontinue all criminal proceedings against them.
Time will tell how the Russian government responds.
Please continue to pray for all of our imprisoned brothers and sisters.
We have full confidence in the thoughts expressed by the Psalmist at Psalm 9, 9 and 10.
Jehovah will become a secure refuge for the oppressed.
A secure refuge in times of distress.
Those knowing your name will trust in you.
You will never abandon those seeking you, O Jehovah.
We're happy that some of our brothers have been released in recent months.
For example, on November 30, 2022,
brother Sergei Poliakov was released after serving a three-year sentence.
But we want to keep in mind the over 175 brothers and sisters around the world
who are still in prison for their faith.
This includes brother Andrei Vlasov, who was sentenced to seven years in appenal quality in Russia.
The following video gives us an update on his case.
Andrei Vlasov is a seriously ill, disabled man from Siberia,
a former Russian court sentenced to seven years in appreasoned colony.
This peaceable religious man was convicted merely for believing in God and reading the Bible.
There wasn't a single piece of legitimate evidence presented.
For example, regarding the charge of subverting the constitutional structure of the country,
how did he do that?
There wasn't a single example of anything my husband had done.
Supposedly, he broke up family bonds.
What families did he break up?
What are the names and places of residence?
Nothing was substantiated.
In the Bill of Charges, only article 2A2 regarding extremism was referred to.
After Andrei had given his concluding speech on May 23, 2022,
the court took a break for just five minutes,
and then the judge announced the verdict, a seven-year prison sentence.
Before we left for the hearing, my husband asked me not to cry, whatever happened.
I tried to fulfill his request.
My reaction was one of shock.
He was the same for everyone there.
Friends, acquaintances and relatives, they were all in shock.
Neither the prosecutor nor the judge considered Andrei's health condition.
He was arrested in the court room and taken to the detention center in the city of Novakuznyetsk.
When he reached the detention center, he was initially in a cell by himself.
There were huge cockroaches running around and cobwebs.
He was dirty. He made it as orderly and livable as possible for himself,
so that he could stay there.
Andrei suffers from a severe form of deformational arthrosis of both hip joints with ankylosis,
which is a total loss of movement.
As a result, his ability to move around care for himself and socialize are impaired.
Just to put his trousers on by himself, elementary things like that,
he has to lie on the floor and wrestle his way into them.
The Russian Federation ratified a list of serious illnesses that exempt someone from being imprisoned.
Andrei's illnesses clearly included, to unequivocally prove this to the judge,
I procured confirmation from a specialist.
The illness can be progressive.
And unfortunately, in Andrei's case, it is already progressing.
Despite the fact that Andrei is disabled and needs constant medical assistance,
he was put in a temporary holding cell immediately after the authorities
raided his home in 2020. Subsequently, he was placed under house arrest.
His pretrial restrictions lasted for one year and ten months.
When under house arrest, it was difficult for my husband to be confined at home.
He was only allowed two hours to walk around the building.
He wasn't allowed to use the telephone, the internet,
or associate with anyone except me, as I lived at the same address.
Even to visit any doctor or dentist,
we had to formally request permission from the investigator in charge of Andrei's case.
According to Natalia, Andrei has not lost his optimism.
He tries to keep in contact with her and his friends by writing letters.
They all hope that the court of causation will release Andrei from confinement.
I've reflected on all that we've been through the last two years
and realized that I was really only frightened when I was anticipating what might happen.
Whenever things did happen, Jehovah was very close to me and I felt his support.
Behind Jehovah's wall of protection, I now see that the winds of persecution and trials are nothing to be afraid of.
Jehovah continues to take care of brother Vlasov,
as can be seen from this experience that he had in October.
Another brother, Alexander Putinsev, was being transported in a prison train to a penal colony.
He had already traveled on the train for ten days when it stopped in Kamarovah region to add more prisoners.
Our brother Andrei was loaded onto the prison train and placed in a cell with other prisoners.
The other prisoners started to ask who he was and what he was convicted of.
He answered, I am Andrei Vlasov and I am in prison for my faith in God.
At hearing this, a man almost fell off the bench and said to Andrei,
you and I must be fellow believers.
Can you imagine, although they were from such different regions and different prisons,
they were placed on the same train and even in the same cell on the train.
As it turns out, the wives of these brothers had prayed that their husbands would be able to meet.
It seemed impossible, but Jehovah made it happen.
The brothers spent over twelve hours together.
They enjoyed a much-needed interchange of encouragement.
Truly, the hero of prayer knows how to care for our brothers.
And we don't forget our three sisters in Russia who are currently in prison for their faith.
Sister Olga Ivanova, sister Ludmila Shakoldina, and sister Anna Safronova.
Sister Safronova is serving a six-year sentence in a penal colony.
That is the harshest, longest sentence imposed on a sister since the 2017 ban.
We also keep in mind 71-year-old brother Shamil Hakimov,
who has been imprisoned in Tajikistan since February 2019.
Regarding Brother Hakimov, the Commissioner of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, Nuri Terkel, stated.
Since 2019, this ailing elderly man has been languishing in a decrepit and overcrowded prison on a bogus seven-and-a-half-year prison sentence.
This term could very well represent a death sentence for a man wrongly imprisoned for peacefully practicing his religious beliefs as a Jehovah's Witness.
Although this sentence was reduced in 2020, Brother Hakimov is not scheduled for release until May 2023.
Please keep praying for Brother Hakimov.
Around the world, our brothers and sisters are also busy with disaster relief.
For example, some months ago, it was anticipated that many brothers and sisters in Ukraine would need warm clothing for the winter.
So, over 200 congregations in Germany were invited to donate clothing and other basic items.
What was the result? Approximately 36,000 pieces of clothing and 6,500 pairs of shoes were generously donated.
With assistance from the Poland branch, 105 pallets with 23.7 metric tons of donated clothing were shipped by truck to Ukraine.
One grateful brother said,
The items we received as humanitarian aid help us to endure the cold and wet weather.
It was warm when I had to flee from my home and I could not take along any warm clothes.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your care. This is vivid evidence of the love of Jehovah our Father.
A sister said,
We are so touched by your generosity and kindness, you have helped us overcome excessive worries.
Through you, Jehovah reminded us that he will never leave us or forsake us, that there is no need to be afraid and worried.
What beautiful expressions.
Following recent natural disasters, the reconstruction work is progressing well in Cuba, Nigeria, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, the United States and elsewhere.
We keep all those affected by disasters and those providing relief in our prayers.
And we thank all of you for your generous contributions which help us to care for our brothers and sisters facing these disasters.
Thank you.
Since June 2022, when we return to in-person forms of the ministry, we have been hearing exciting reports from the field.
We have seen a tremendous increase in the number of Bible studies.
In fact, worldwide, we have seen an increase of nearly 30% since May.
That means that now more than one and a half million new Bible studies are being conducted.
Isn't that wonderful?
Notice a few comments from branch offices around the world about the growth we've observed since May 2022.
In Angola, from May, October, 2022, we had an increase of over 265,000 Bible studies.
In the lands under the Central America branch, we're now reporting over 680,000 Bible studies.
That's over 20% more studies than we reported in May of 2022.
In Papua New Guinea, we've had a 15% increase in Bible studies since our return to in-person preaching.
In the lands under the Central Europe branch, we are happy to report an increase in Bible studies.
More than 6,800 new Bible studies have been reported just in the first three months of the 2023 service year.
In the Congo Pinchasa, we have reported over 209,000 additional Bible studies since the reception of public witnessing and the House to House Ministry.
In the lands under the United States branch, we had nearly 30,000 more Bible studies in just the first two months of the 2023 service year.
In Spain, we had a 4% increase in the number of Bible studies from May to October, 2020.
In Mozambique, we are reporting 47,000 more Bible studies since we have returned to our in-person ministry.
In Venezuela, we reported over 67,000 Bible studies back in May.
But in October, we reported nearly 105,000.
It's exciting to see Jehovah blessing the work.
In Korea, we've had 30 consecutive peaks in the number of publishers.
We now have 106,050 and we had our 27th consecutive peak in the number of regular pioneers.
We now have 50,846.
That means almost half of the publishers are serving as regular pioneers.
Here in Malawi, we've had a tremendous increase in the number of Bible studies.
In May, we had more than 87,000 studies.
But in October, we had more than 130,000 Bible studies.
In the Philippines, since May, the number of Bible studies have increased by more than 60,000.
And in November, for the first time, we have crossed the 240,000 publisher mark.
Wasn't that encouraging? Well, here's one more example.
In a country where the work is under ban.
There was an increase of nearly 3,000 Bible studies since May.
It's wonderful that despite opposition, the work is moving ahead.
The governing body is thrilled when we hear these reports about what's taking place in the field.
Truly, Jehovah is speeding up the work.
Recently, it was announced that regular pioneers will once again have an hour requirement, effective March 1, 2023.
Pioneers are now busy looking at their schedules and planning how they'll be able to meet the hour requirement.
The governing body, though, is realistic about the world situation.
Many branches have reported that pioneers are struggling to meet their hour goal because of the rising cost of living,
and many are contending with natural disasters, unrest, and war.
In 1999, the governing body considered the situation of the pioneers.
The January 1999 Kingdom Ministry said,
we have observed the mounting difficulties faced by pioneers,
especially with regard to finding part-time secular work that will allow them to care adequately for their personal needs,
so as to remain in the full-time service.
The present economic situation in many lands has also made it increasingly difficult for others to enter the pioneer work,
even though that is their heartfelt desire.
During recent months, these and other factors have been carefully considered.
Because of those factors, the governing body decided back in 1999 to adjust the hour requirements for the pioneers.
Now, 24 years later, as world conditions continue to deteriorate, the governing body sees that our pioneers are facing similar challenges.
Therefore, we are very pleased to announce that the governing body has decided to adjust the hour requirements for pioneers effective March 1, 2023.
You may want to get a pen or something to write this down. Are you ready?
Here are the new requirements.
For regular pioneers, the requirement will now be 600 hours per year,
that is an average of 50 hours per month. For auxiliary pioneers, the requirement will now be 30 hours.
But notice this, this is very exciting.
During March and April, and during the month of the Circuit Overseer's visit, publishers can choose to auxiliary pioneer with a reduced hour requirement of 15 hours.
This should make it possible for many more of us to share as auxiliary pioneers during those months of special activity.
What about special pioneers and missionaries? They will now have an hour requirement of 100 hours per month.
Sisters who are serving as special pioneers or missionaries and who are 40 years of age or older have a reduced hour requirement of 90 hours.
How should we view these adjustments? This is powerful evidence of the great love and tender concern that Jehovah feels for his people.
We want as many as possible to retain their precious privilege of serving as pioneers.
And we feel that these adjustments will make it possible for many more to consider taking up the pioneer work.
Since the number of people requesting Bible studies is increasing worldwide, there could never be a better time to expand our share in the ministry.
If you are serving as a pioneer right now, we hope that you'll continue.
If you're not yet serving as a regular pioneer, would it be possible for you to do so?
And with the memorial season, just ahead, no doubt all elders, ministerial servants and publishers will prayerfully consider if they can auxiliary pioneer.
Can you do so?
We look to Jehovah to bless all of these arrangements to his glory and praise.
Yes, may we all continue to do our very best to find those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
We love you all very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.